>> Sarah Drasner: In order to use Vuex,
we have to npm and install --c, or
we say, yarn add vuex.
I typically set it up this way
within my source directory,
I create another directory named store.
Remember, I had created that other
directory named component before.
This is a preference.
You could also just make
a store.js file and
have it chilling in that source directory,
if you wanted to.
The reason why I put a store directory
there and put that single file in store
directory is there are cases with a giant
application where you might even want
to break up that file into several files,
and manage the state in a different way.
If I keep that in one
directory from the GetGo,
if I get into a situation
where I need to refactor,
move it into a few different files,
I'm already in a place to do that.
I don't have to rewrite paths in a bunch
of components or anything like that.
But again that's a preference, you can
create that store file wherever you want.
So the initial set up in store.js
would look something like this.
This is the vstore sublime snippet,
if you wanted to use sublime.
So you would import Vue from vue,
import Vuex from vuex.
We'd say, Vue.use(Vuex),
and import const store and
I'm gonna go into more depth on this too.
I know that I'm like throwing
a lot at you right now.
State and key and value.
So that's the smallest state store you
could possibly make ever in the world.
This tiny little key value state store.
In our main.js file,
we'd perform the following updates, so
we look at that main.js file and we're
gonna look at it in real life as well.
Import Vue from vue, import App from
App.view, would import store from
store/store, that was the direct
restructure I had mentioned before.
And we have store, store.
So the things that changed about this
file, it's pretty much the same.
Here are the things that
changed about this file.
We have import store from store/store and
then we have store/store,
that's the second.
So we can say store/store or we can just
say store, because it's redundant and
ES6 understands that
that's what we might need.
In our store,
we have a few different things.
You saw that we had our state.
Our state is very similar to the way
that we've been housing our data so far.
We have data in a function, and we have
a few different values that we're using.
So state is pretty much the same thing,
but it's a centralized place for
all of that state.
The other things that we
have in this are getters.
Getters will make values able to
show statically in our templates.
In other words, getters can read
the value, but not mutate the state.
So you can think about getters as kind
of equivalent to computed values.
That's kind of how we
are using computed values.
It's a different view on that same data.
We're not mutating that data,
we're not mutating the state,
we're using getters to have a different
view of that state to begin with.
Mutations will allow us
to update the state.
They'll always be synchronous,
every single time,
they're always gonna be synchronous.
Mutations are the only way
to change data in the store,
that is the only way to
change data in the store.
So you might say, so
how do I make asynchronous things happen.
We will use actions to update
the state asynchronously.
But we'll always use an existing mutation.
So you can't just create an action and
mutate the state.
You'd have to create a mutation and then
use that mutation inside of an action.
This can be really helpful if you need to
perform a few different mutations at once
in a particular order.
Or, if you need to reach out to a server.
It kind of doing it this way is really
nice because you solve any kind of
sequencing or ordering problems.
You don't have a situation where you're
executing a couple of things but
really while the server, you're waiting
to get some response from the server.
Something that was suppose to follow is
being executed, you can kind of make sure
that you're executing things
exactly when you need to be.
So mutations are like,
how we've been using methods.
They're any kind of change to
the state that needs to occur.
And actions will take
an existing mutation and
apply some sort of asynchronous activity,
either reaching out to a server.
Here, we're gonna use set timeouts just so
you get the idea of them.
We separate actions and
mutations because we don't want
to get into an ordering problem.
All right,
we've got a basic abstract example,
we're gonna walk through
this really quick.
We had kind of talked about that store,
and we've just said key value before.
This is kind of like building
off of that example.
So in state, we'd maybe have
something like counter is 0.
This getter again, like the computer had
value, this getter is allowing us to
use this tripleCounter and
it's really saying
state.counter * 3, whatever kind of
logic that we need to use it for.
Mutation is mutating a state,
mutations are always synchrounous.
When we mutate the state with an argument,
we usually call it payload.
That's just like industry standard so
we're showing it passed with payload,
we're passing in the state and
then also num, which is the payload and
we're incrementing that
value by the num here.
Now this is a lot.
And I'll use the next couple of slides to
go into much more detail about this so
that you don't feel like I'm overwhelming
you with just this information.
And actions,
we're showing it passed with a payload,
represented as asyncNum,
which is an object.
So we've got this commit.
We're passing an asyncNum,
we have the setTimeout and
this asyncNum is an object so we can
say asyncNum.by and asyncNum.duration.
It can also just be static
amounts if you want to.
So okay, let's go a little bit further
into actions cuz that was a lot of things
for you to understand very, very quickly.
We have to pass on the context in actions.
Context, we'll use context.state,
context.getter.
The reason why we're not using
context.state directly is so
that we avoid collisions because there's
a more complicated reason for this but
we have different modules, and
then it can be name spaced differently.
So in order to keep those from colliding
in actions, we have to pass in context.
But we're actually gonna
abstract the context away.
Typically, we don't use it like this.
What we'll do is destructure it and
just say, instead of that,
we'll pass in in parens commit,
and then say commit increment.
So that's a little bit more legible,
a little bit clearer to read as well.
If we're going to do some sort of
asynchronous calculation from this, so at
first, we had that commit, we're passing
in commit increment, we have commit.
We have setTimeout, and
we're committing increments.
So increment would be a method
that we've already created.
If we go back, increment was
something that we made in mutation.
So we're taking that mutation and
mutations always have
to be committed when we start to
use these in our component files.
We're committing the mutation
in our templates, and
we're also committing the mutation
in our actions as well.
And so, we're committing this increment.
And we have it happening after one
second if you note setTimeout,
we are waiting for one second and
then we're doing that mutation.
If we just did the mutation and let's say,
it's something that takes a long time and
we are not using it asynchronously,
it can actually block up our application
because they can only be synchronous,
and we want to avoid that.
Those actions become really useful for
those mutations because we don't want to
block up our application waiting for
something to happen.
So if we're gonna use
this action in our actual
component, we use a thing called dispatch.
I will go over this part again, so
I'm going to go over it here and
then we're gonna go over how they're
each used again in a second.
We have methods and
then we're going to say asyncIncrement,
I'm just calling it the same thing,
I could call this something else,
I could call it go get tacos.
And then we have this.$store.dispatch
(asyncIncrement).
So I'm calling this and what it's going
to do is it's going to then reach out,
and then it's going to set a time out and
execute, and commit that
increment after waiting one second.
>> Speaker 2: Just
a comment on the actions.
>> Sarah Drasner: What's that?
>> Speaker 2: So on the actions,
are you kinda using setTimeout as
an illustrative thing to show-
>> Sarah Drasner: Yeah, just because it's
a little bit easier than
also showing all of the-
>> Speaker 2: Like doing an HTTP request
is what you might be doing.
>> Sarah Drasner: Yeah,
it's a lot to understand in general.
So the setTimeout is kind of abstraction
so that you're not bogged down with some
other details.
>> Sarah Drasner: So let's say,
we need to change some of these values,
maybe we need to pass in a payload.
If we needed to pass in
a different duration,
here we're just hard
coding that one second.
But let's say,
we need a different duration.
We would then create this payload here,
and we say duration.
And then, we would create an object
here where we say duration is 1,000.
So that's how we updated
in those two places.
So here, it's hard coded,
we're just calling asyncIncrement.
If we want to dispatch with a payload,
we have duration, and then we're passing
in an object where we have duration, yeah?
>> Speaker 3: If the object that you're
passing in has only one property, does it
just somehow pull that single property?
Cuz it seems to me you're
passing in an object with the-
>> Sarah Drasner: Yeah, I mean,
we can do it either way.
We can pass in just the one but if you
need to build off of it in anyway and
create more values, then it becomes
easier to then kind of
update from that point.
So if we need to do
something like this object.
And that's actually kind of a typical
used case I would say is that we're not
just passing in one argument to this,
it's a little bit easier to update that.
>> Speaker 3: It
looks like this exact example and
looks like you're passing an object that's
the second parameter to setTimeout?
>> Sarah Drasner: We are,
we're passing in an object and
that's going to be the duration.
So this is destructuring, it's an ES6.
>> Speaker 3: So,
it is destructuring right now.
>> Sarah Drasner: Yeah,
it's destructuring.
And so then, we can say asyncNum,
we pass in asyncNum, and
then we can update this to by and dur.
So then we can say, were asyncNum.by,
asyncNum.dur, and
then we can update it in that way.
So the way is that we would use all
of these things that we just talked
about is on the component itself,
we'd use computed for getters.
This makes sense because it's kind of
similar to computed values anyway.
We have our computed and
we can use value directly in our code.
We say return
this.$store.getters.tripleCounter,
or whatever you want for that, example.
But we basically use that as a computed
value because that's basically, where
the same kind of dance that we are doing
is that different view on the same state.
We'd used commit for mutations.
So anytime we use a mutation,
we use commit,
even if it's in the component,
even if it's in store.js.
And then for asyncIncrement,
we us dispatch for the actions.
So any time you use an action in one of
our components, we use asyncIncrement.
So I'm gonna bring up this example where
we're doing a few different things here.
So we've got,
>> Sarah Drasner: I tried
to separate these out as much as possible
so that they were easier to understand.
So if we go into vuex example,
and I'll do subl first.
And,
>> Sarah Drasner: Here
we have the state from the store is zero.
The getter for
tripleCounter from the store is zero.
So that's that getter that
kind of computed value.
Let's increment by two with a mutation,
we're gonna increment by two,
you can see that that getter is changing
but it's always gonna be times three.
Let's increment by 10
with an action async, so
we wait one second and
then we increment by 10.
And this is a really simple adjustment
store state with the component.
I would never do this,
but people do do this.
So I'm showing it to you,
I don't think that you should do this.
But I've seen it in enough applications
now that I wanna call out to you,
it's possible, but I don't think that
that's how you should be working with it.
So here we go into the source,
and we're going into components.
And I made a separate component for
each thing that you're gonna do so
that it is a little bit
easier to understand.
So here's our store directory,
like I said.
We have our store here, and
it's pretty similar to the stuff that we
mentioned that we would be working with.
Then, in our main.js file,
remember I said,
we're gonna import store from store,
here that is, and there is the store here.
And then in the action,
let's start with the app.
So I can say,
the state from the store is span, and
then state and then in here,
in that computed value.
Again, we're just accessing
the state from the store, but
I'm still gonna use a computed value
because that computed value's going to be
cashed until the dependency has changed.
So it's a good chance for
me to use computed value,
just returning that state from the store.
So, I'm gonna say state return
this.$store.state.counter.
And it's going to be this,
and then $store.
And we're able to use state.
Remember, we saw that
earlier with getters.
We can use the state right here.
Then, in the getter,
we have something very similar.
We have a computed value, we have triple
this.$store.getters.tripleCounter,
and then we have triple passed in here.
And then, in mutation,
we can increment two with a mutation
button @click is increment.
That's gonna call this method here.
And the method is
this.$store.commit increment, and
then we're passing in something like two.
There's many different ways that we
could actually use this mutation,
that's just an example.
And then in the action,
we have, let's increment by,
this should actually say ten,
within action async,
button @click asyncInc,
and then in our methods,
we say asyncInc this.$store.dispatch
asyncInc, and passing in 10.
So if we go back to looking at that store,
you can see that we're actually
committing this as our payload.
This is our payload.
Those are the things
that we were passing in.
So that is all organized in the repo for
you.
We just went over all
of this kind of stuff.
So the getter is, I've kept these
in all in different slides for you.
The getter, we're using a computed value.
We're saying,
this.$store.getters.tripleCounter.
And then in store.js, we are using
whatever logic we would like to do for
that different take on that value.
We have a mutation
methods @click increment.
An increment we say, this.$store.commit.
Remember, mutations are always committed
and actions are always dispatched.
So we're always going to commit
it this way, in store.js.
In async action,
we've got button asyncInc, and
we've got $store.dispatch,
and this.store.js.
And there are times when you have a lot of
stuff that you need to get from the store,
and rewriting out new values for
each one of these can get a little
arduous and painful and not at all dry.
So Vuex allows us to do
a thing called map getters,
mapActions, map mutations,
so you would say,
in the same file at import
mapActions from vuex.
And then I would be able to, with
a spread operator, say mapActions, and
then say, all of the things that
I wanna go get from that source.
So I don't have to keep
rewriting all of those values.
Some people just write
it like this right away.
So this map this.increment to
this.$store.commit increment.
Actually that will be dispatched for
actions.
So this allows us to still make our
own computer properties if we wish,
because we could use these and
then reuse them and create another method
below them that you uses that value.
So we can make new computed
properties from these as well.
If this doesn't fit our exact use case,
so that's pretty great.
One thing though,
is that spread operators are not
supported in all of these even
in newer babel necessarily.
It depends on your build.
So you might need babel preset stage 2, or
babel plugin transform object rest spread.
So you might have to yarn add, or
NPM install one of these two
to get this working correctly.
So if we're working with this,
if we're working with mapActions
before we were doing that thing
where we were increment and
then comma five or whatever in
that order to pass the payload.
In this instance, we'd write @click,
and then the increment,
we'd pass that in parens instead,
because we're not kind of using it
exactly the same way, so
we pass the payload this way.
And then store.js,
that's the same test there.